# Controlify 1.8.0 for 1.20.4

## Joystick Gamepad Emulation

Controlify now supports joystick gamepad emulation. Some controllers may not be picked up correctly
as a gamepad, so now you can emulate a gamepad by teaching Controlify what each input on your controller
corresponds to on a gamepad.

This will automatically appear if Controlify detects that your controller is not a gamepad.
This is a common issue, where all the button textures show as purple/black squares.

## Additions

- Add new rumble effect when walking on soul sand or any other block that slows you down.
- Add recipe book navigation *by Arno Keesman* ([#222](https://github.com/isXander/Controlify/pull/222))
- Add a button that links to the wiki when the controller carousel screen is empty (no controllers detected).

## Changes

- Improved functionality of changing a binding. They should be picked up a lot better now, and darkens
  the rest of the screen around the control.
- Removed MixinExtras from the JAR since it is now included by Fabric Loader.
- Rename 'Auto Deadzone Calibration' to 'Auto Calibration', and duplicate the option into the gyro section.
- Better detection of damage for the rumble effect.
- Rumble is now silenced when the game is paused.
- All rumble effects are cleared when disconnecting.
- Stop reducing aim sensitivity on crossbows since you do not aim when you pull them back.
- Update the internal game controller database to the latest version.
- Add a controller to the known list that was submitted heavily by the 'Submit Unknown Controller' screen.
- Refactor the way Controlify shows the setup screens like calibration and submit unknown controller.

## Bug Fixes

- Fix drop button from triggering if exit gui and drop are the same button.
- Fix VMouse handling triggering whilst in-game, causing the button that toggles it to override other controls,
  like changing perspective.
- Fix switching tabs in YACL not focusing the buttons properly.
- Fix Sodium GUI compatibility, controls were not focusing. (THIS DOES NOT APPLY TO REESE'S SODIUM OPTIONS)
- Fixed other mods like FreeCam from breaking input.

## Translations

- French translation by Myuui ([#211](https://github.com/isXander/Controlify/pull/211))
